<h1 id="highlight.js">Highlight.js</h1>

<p>Highlight.js highlights syntax in code examples on blogs, forums and,
in fact, on any web page. It's very easy to use because it works
automatically: finds blocks of code, detects a language, highlights it.</p>

<p>Autodetection can be fine tuned when it fails by itself (see "Heuristics").</p>

<h2 id="basic-usage">Basic usage</h2>

<p>Link the library and a stylesheet from your page and hook highlighting to
the page load event:</p>

<pre><code class="html">&lt;link rel="stylesheet" href="styles/default.css"&gt;
&lt;script src="highlight.pack.js"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;
&lt;script&gt;hljs.initHighlightingOnLoad();&lt;/script&gt;
</code></pre>

<p>This will highlight all code on the page marked up as <code>&lt;pre&gt;&lt;code&gt; .. &lt;/code&gt;&lt;/pre&gt;</code>.
If you use different markup or need to apply highlighting dynamically, read
"Custom initialization" below.</p>

<ul>
<li><p>You can download your own customized version of "highlight.pack.js" or
use the hosted one as described on the download page:
<a href="http://softwaremaniacs.org/soft/highlight/en/download/">http://softwaremaniacs.org/soft/highlight/en/download/</a></p></li>
<li><p>Style themes are available in the download package or as hosted files.
To create a custom style for your site see the class reference in the file
<a href="http://github.com/isagalaev/highlight.js/blob/master/classref.txt">classref.txt</a> from the downloaded package.</p></li>
</ul>

<h2 id="node.js">node.js</h2>

<p>Highlight.js can be used under node.js. The package with all supported languages is
installable from NPM:</p>

<pre><code>npm install highlight.js
</code></pre>

<p>Alternatively, you can build it from the source with only languages you need:</p>

<pre><code>python tools/build.py -tnode lang1 lang2 ..
</code></pre>

<p>Using the library:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">var hljs = require('highlight.js');

// If you know the language
hljs.highlight(lang, code).value;

// Automatic language detection
hljs.highlightAuto(code).value;
</code></pre>

<h2 id="tab-replacement">Tab replacement</h2>

<p>You can replace TAB ('\x09') characters used for indentation in your code
with some fixed number of spaces or with a <code>&lt;span&gt;</code> to give them special
styling:</p>

<pre><code class="html">&lt;script type="text/javascript"&gt;
  hljs.tabReplace = '    '; // 4 spaces
  // ... or
  hljs.tabReplace = '&lt;span class="indent"&gt;\t&lt;/span&gt;';

  hljs.initHighlightingOnLoad();
&lt;/script&gt;
</code></pre>

<h2 id="custom-initialization">Custom initialization</h2>

<p>If you use different markup for code blocks you can initialize them manually
with <code>highlightBlock(code, tabReplace, useBR)</code> function. It takes a DOM element
containing the code to highlight and optionally a string with which to replace
TAB characters.</p>

<p>Initialization using, for example, jQuery might look like this:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">$(document).ready(function() {
  $('pre code').each(function(i, e) {hljs.highlightBlock(e)});
});
</code></pre>

<p>You can use <code>highlightBlock</code> to highlight blocks dynamically inserted into
the page. Just make sure you don't do it twice for already highlighted
blocks.</p>

<p>If your code container relies on <code>&lt;br&gt;</code> tags instead of line breaks (i.e. if
it's not <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code>) pass <code>true</code> into the third parameter of <code>highlightBlock</code>
to make highlight.js use <code>&lt;br&gt;</code> in the output:</p>

<pre><code class="javascript">$('div.code').each(function(i, e) {hljs.highlightBlock(e, null, true)});
</code></pre>

<h2 id="heuristics">Heuristics</h2>

<p>Autodetection of a code's language is done using a simple heuristic:
the program tries to highlight a fragment with all available languages and
counts all syntactic structures that it finds along the way. The language
with greatest count wins.</p>

<p>This means that in short fragments the probability of an error is high
(and it really happens sometimes). In this cases you can set the fragment's
language explicitly by assigning a class to the <code>&lt;code&gt;</code> element:</p>

<pre><code class="html">&lt;pre&gt;&lt;code class="html"&gt;...&lt;/code&gt;&lt;/pre&gt;
</code></pre>

<p>You can use class names recommended in HTML5: "language-html",
"language-php". Classes also can be assigned to the <code>&lt;pre&gt;</code> element.</p>

<p>To disable highlighting of a fragment altogether use "no-highlight" class:</p>

<pre><code class="html">&lt;pre&gt;&lt;code class="no-highlight"&gt;...&lt;/code&gt;&lt;/pre&gt;
</code></pre>

<h2 id="export">Export</h2>

<p>File export.html contains a little program that allows you to paste in a code
snippet and then copy and paste the resulting HTML code generated by the
highlighter. This is useful in situations when you can't use the script itself
on a site.</p>

<h2 id="meta">Meta</h2>

<ul>
<li>Version: 7.3</li>
<li>URL:     http://softwaremaniacs.org/soft/highlight/en/</li>
<li>Author:  Ivan Sagalaev (<a href="&#109;&#x61;&#105;&#x6c;&#116;&#x6f;:&#109;&#x61;&#110;&#x69;&#97;&#x63;&#64;&#x73;o&#102;&#x74;&#119;&#x61;&#114;&#x65;&#109;&#x61;&#x6e;&#105;&#x61;&#99;&#x73;&#46;&#x6f;r&#103;">&#109;&#x61;&#110;&#x69;&#97;&#x63;&#64;&#x73;o&#102;&#x74;&#119;&#x61;&#114;&#x65;&#109;&#x61;&#x6e;&#105;&#x61;&#99;&#x73;&#46;&#x6f;r&#103;</a>)</li>
</ul>

<p>For the license terms see LICENSE files.
For the list of contributors see AUTHORS.en.txt file.</p>
